Note : 👍

Such a very underrated game and the Metacritic reviews are a joke. The 'God is a Geek' review for instance describes the game as "enjoyable" but then scores it a 40 out of 100, only for reasons by comparison to other games of it's genre. There are a lot of game reproductions on the market (the twin stix genre has to be one of the most reproduced) so its not really a fair reviewing Hexodius by comparison and not seeing it as it's own game. 'Hexodius', with it's own challanges, and characteristics that separate it from all the other twin sticks on the market. I need not remind the real gamers how many of them that are on the market but it's a lot and I'm a fan of everyone of them (well almost... [i][b]*cough*[/b]Arcadia[b]*cough*[/b][/i] ,ehem.) and Hexodius is not an exception. 

The game play is your basic twin stick arena shooter, you do get power ups which gives it a hint of action stratagy. The other part I didn't like about Hex was how stale the "Action" started out. Yes, it started off a little slow but the action eventually starts picking up becoming more challenging to the players skill level, and the arena's start getting a little more tricky to navigate, and enemies a little more stronger and powerful. In turn, you power up as well and there is no shortage to choose from, with 4 large sets that can be upgraded and customized. 
Controls are highly programmable, in fact, makes this twin stick even easier to pick up and learn. 

Yes, there are minor annoyances in this game... like the text popping up in the middle of the battle and pausing it, then throwing you back in... it kind of isn't kewl and you'll see that complaint on a lot of reviews. A minor design flaw. Really Dev's?! ...this is a robot based game... if you can't/won't hire voice actors, get a text to voice simulator!!! 
Geez...

Graphics are okay (screenshots tell that story) but I'm not exactly sure why this will not run on my i5-HD3000 GPU laptop, as I have no problems running Assult Andriod Cactus... ?! (Currently running this on Phenom IIx4 810 w/ R9 280X - no probs)

Sounds are okay but also bring us back to the text issue. So I must note to devs: If you are going to progress a story, or write a book of instructions for the player, don't do it in the middle of the action, very few players will have the patience to read it regardless of the fact that it removes players from the game. 

With more worlds beaten, more arcade modes are unlocked, so there is a decent amount replayability here but because this game cleverly infuses hazards in both the enemies and in the environment, it becomes tricky, with it comes frustration. It is sometimes best to experience Hex in smaller doses. 

Overall I enjoy this game, I think the Metacritic score killed what should have been a more popular game, because 47 is a ugly number and in my opinion, it should have been in the high 60's or low 70's. Even so, over a year later, I still play and enjoy Hexodius.