Note : 👎

Initially, I wasn't planning on going too hard on this game and its developers. But after spending few hours trying to figure out performance issues that this game has and figuring out the source of the softlock in the tutorial level (which I have informed the developer about) and then spending good few hours playing the game trying to see how many other issues are in this game and if there is a chance it is ever getting patched, I have come decided otherwise. So here goes...

THIS GAME IS NOT RELEASE READY! IT IS NOT EVEN EARLY ACCESS READY! And to pretend it otherwise is absurd! Furthermore, I highly doubt there was any QA done by the publisher - if there was, someone would have caught the softlock issue in the tutorial. It is literally in the first 10 min of the game. It's not even something that is easily missed in test environments (like improper character coding in system paths for example is). All you need is one person from a region, which uses a comma as a decimal separator and you have your softlock and there are loads of them (see: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Decimal_separator#Countries_using_decimal_comma). No - there just wasn't QA done, and all we're dealing with is an attempt to pass a game that would barely classify as an alpha build as a full release, in a sickening attempt to recoup some losses by either a publisher, developer or both. Again, I was originally planning on not being too harsh, but ultimately, after seeing the state this game is in, the abysmal performance and that is with the ridiculous hacks that developers have implemented (like disabling shadow casting for almost all surfaces and setting a far plane for the camera to distance of something less than 100m), I just can't, cause at the end of the day, I am a game developer myself, I work with Unity and because of games like this I then have to deal with people constantly nagging "why Unity when you could use X,Y,Z", while in reality Unity - in the right hands - is perfectly capable of handling a game like this and much more. Essentially because of games like this, my professional life gets harder and I have to put even more effort into what I do, to convince people that now have a biased against games using Unity, that the choice of Unity as the core of the project wasn't the wrong one.

Right. Haven't even managed to get to what this game essentially is and what it is, is a stealth game with some randomization (call it rouge-lite if you must). Problem is, the entire level generator is a gigantic mess that is unlikely to ever get fixed (and that is even if additional months of development get magically funded), as it is simply incapable of doing even basic stuff like connecting floors with one another without bugging out in a way that it leaves a gigantic hole in geometry in the place where the wall is supposed to be or putting a tiny room out of nowhere in the middle of the staircase with only inside faces of that room being present. It's a miracle if it even manages to spawn required objectives, as I had cases where I was supposed to disable X security systems and then the moment I loaded, it turned out that objective said 0 out of 0. I have had cameras spawn above the ceiling, ceilings spawning below where they should be and lacking collisions, I have had rooms without walls or doors on one of the ends that just lead into the void, where there wasn't any level anymore. I have had failed connections between rooms. I have had flowers being planted outside the ground, objects floating in mid-air and I literally NEVER had a single level that was generated as intended.

It's just one gigantic mess and from the looks of it - it is never getting fixed and you should certainly NOT buy it in hopes it gets fixed one day - cause the likelihood of that happening is almost zero.

Oh, and as for fixing the softlock, since I got no response being nicely ignored and there doesn't seem to be any movement on even the developer's branch, here is how much code has to be added to have that fixed, so if it doesn't get fixed soon - you might as well call this a scam project:
[code]CultureInfo EnforcedCulture = new CultureInfo("en-GB");
CultureInfo.CurrentCulture = EnforcedCulture;
CultureInfo.DefaultThreadCurrentCulture = EnforcedCulture;[/code]

This should be executed once at the start-up of the program.
Good day!

-- EDIT --
Patch has dropped, sadly despite the notes saying a softlock in tutorial was removed - the softlock is still a thing.