Note : 👍

Okay, listen, we need to talk. There are at least 5 achievements that are definitely broken, probably 6 unless I can figure out who the heck Aevon Gardott is. I've written a bit of a guide that details what they are, and maybe I'll finish that up and complete what I can.

After 20 hours, I feel I've given Abermore a fair shake. Though I cannot speak to its state at launch, it is far more playable than most of these reviews would have you believe. I have not once encountered a level geometry that is truly unplayable, though I've certainly encountered some ridiculous layouts and oddly placed walls. I've also encountered several times where the game hangs, especially in cut scenes, and some missions that seem pretty broken. Yes, there are some ugly seams and rough edges to point and laugh at, but I think everybody else has beat that to death.

There is a fun game in Abermore. It is far from perfect, but it is fun. Should you buy it? I don't know your finances, but I picked it up when it went on sale for less than $2, and if it does that again, then sure, why not. If you're here, looking at these reviews, then I can only imagine you're waist deep in an immersive sim binge, and you've seen this mentioned offhand in a video or two. If that's you, and you're curious, add this to your wishlist and wait for the next sale.

I genuinely really enjoy the writing in this game. I think they've painted a setting worth exploring, and it's hard to see when things break down. I really wish this game would get a little more support. I would happily offer my services as a Unity dev, at least just to fix those achievements and some poor data handling in the inventory grids. But I suppose that's a problem, that it's hard to say something good about Abermore without also admitting its faults in the same breath.

Thing is, I don't think a lot of these reviews have even given it a chance. Maybe you bought it on the first day, and maybe it was significantly more broken at that point. I understand. That hurts. But here's the thing: reviews are weapons. You cannot call a game a scam and expect it to get fixed. If the developers had any intention of continuing support for this game, which, I don't know, not gonna hold my breath, but if they had any intention of doing so, getting overwhelmingly negative reviews would absolutely kill any desire to continue development.

Is it more important for you, as a consumer, to be part of a collective of consumers, or would you like to engage in a constructive dialogue with the creators? Because that's what reviews can be. Despite what some grumpy fictional swamp goblin might say, there is no do, there is only trying and occasionally succeeding. Though Abermore has some clear misses, with a little more trying, I for one believe it can hit the right spot. If you did give it a chance and truly found no redeeming qualities hidden within, I can understand, but luckily there are so many other games to play.

I love Abermore. Sometimes it does things that I hate, sometimes it aggravates and disappoints, but it has a raw flawed beauty that I truly adore. I cannot, in good faith, recommend it to just anyone out there, but I do think, if you're here, reading this, that you should give it a try. Try to see past its ugliness. Try to appreciate the writing, notwithstanding the occasional misspellings. Try to be kind. Because for all its faults, I can't stand seeing a game like this get nothing but hate.