Note : 👍

There Are many things good with the original Bioshock game, but there a few gripes I have with the game. During the main story there are a few glitches and bugs (I was playing the non-remastered edition) but nothing major, mostly just rare occasional crashes, too intense for the physics engine to handle (same with the 2nd game, but more on that over there).
The introduction of the plasmids and weapons were very fluid and intuitive and at the ADAM stations, the prices for ammo, plasmids, and tonics were very balanced the entire course of the game. The Game is also very well put together story-wise, aside from at the ending of the game. In which (at least the good ending, I haven't played the other ending) seems very forced onto the player, you get a happy ever after with all the Little Sisters, and not more of a realistic ending where it works out, but some things don't. 

One good thing in the game are the Plasmids; they are the genetic encoding power-ups you get throughout your journey in Rapture. Some are unlocked through Story progression, meanwhile others are rewards for harvesting ADAM, or even just exploring the different rooms in the game, although most are just bought at the ADAM vending machine. They are pretty balanced, being you as the player needs to be able to use plasmids, as well as using the Weapons in order to fairly get through the game. They need to work together, not seperate power systems throughout the game. for example you can get the frost blast plasmid and then freeze a big daddy stunning him. Then you can shoot him with other weapons while he is frozen, which they balance with the incinerate ability (fire blast). which if you use ice and then fire, it just melts the ice, not being able to have both active on an enemy. Another Good aspect of the game is the Weapons; during my play-through I mostly used the Shotgun, Wrench, and Tommy Gun. Throughout the game you can upgrade your weapons, but only up to 7~ times throughout the game collectively, across all your weapons, so you must choose wisely. Even on easy mode, you will want those upgrades. 

Another positive element about the Original Bioshock is the story. You are the sole survivor (or so you think) of a plane crash and stumble upon a lighthouse, bringing you to the great underwater city of RAPTURE. Here, you find your first plasmid on the surface, and are communicating with someone known as Atlas; in which he asks you to help him with helping out in recovering someone/something he needs from the city. "Would you kindly?". Where it leads to you going around a relatively small portion of rapture, searching, finding out what ADAM is, seeing the remaining residents of the broken city; and most of all Andrew Ryan, the supposed crooked villain of the story. But all is revealed throughout the story, As you collect ADAM and grow stronger. In order to escape you will have to turn into a Big Daddy, in order to both, lure the Little Sisters to help you (in the good ending), and it adds an extra layer of defence, armour, and protection to you for the Final Boss fight. Although this is a good game, there are some plot-holes that arise and are never acknowledged in the subsequent games being Bioshock 2 and Infinite. 

All in all, Bioshock 1 is a pretty solid game, story and game-play-wise, but overall does lack just that extra oomph that is to be desired.