Note : 👍

Please ignore the time played. Played all the way through this twice just not on this platform. The first run took me about 10 hours
Crows: Plasmids are genuinely fun to use: Incinerate, freeze, shock, use telekinesis to toss grenades back in the face of the thrower, etc. Fighting the understandably immediately iconic Big Daddies is quite memorable. For being linear, this does have marvelous levels and I didn't stop enjoying seeing new areas, even when it goes on for too long near the conclusion(where it brings up issues that could be compelling if it wasn't too little and far too late, if some of the twists are cool). Neat idea to have a camera that you take photographs with(to get better at taking out opponents). Attractive, visually and audibly. Voice acting is good. Filters, especially water, looks fantastic. You go up against security in the form of cameras(with a halo of light, meaning that you can figure out the angle they're coming from before you spot it, smart), flying bots and turrets(the latter using machine-guns or rockets), and all three can be turned over to your side.
Cons: Lack of enemy variety. Part of the supposed appeal here is making choices and that mattering, and yet all you can really do is choose between three endings by your actions in this(that is one of the unusual show of guts that this does engage in) and what genetic specials to be carrying around(I swear, they were tossin' 'em at me!), since you can find in excess of the six you can use. While the guns aren't bad, they almost all have the exact same ammo types: Fire, cold, electricity and regular... what's the point of having different ones? At its core, this is a mere FPS(it arms you with a revolver, a shotgun, Tommygun, grenade launcher, chemical thrower(burn, brr, and zap), and crossbow(they can be upgraded, and you can actually see it, physically). ) with one or two unusual features, and as such, it's in no way the best of its kind. A sequel in spirit to System Shock 2, that decades-old(!) product beats it with both arms tied behind its back. While it is a great choice that this severely limits certain things that weren't in SS2: You can only carry so much money, that many bullets, bolts or the like, etc.(Yes, you can find them almost anywhere and I never ran out of anything important... guys, the way you do it is make the availability low). No multi-player. The radio transmissions never seem to shut up, and bugs you if you go exploring(even though that's part of the point). This is also excessively streamlined, if it could be worse.
Mildly recommended, but if you find this sort of thing appealing, I greatly recommend both of its sequels and honestly also System Shock 2 over this
I bought this on sale to try to help others decide if they want to buy this game