Note : 👍

The 2003 release XII was a game that loosely followed a Belgian comic of the same name, compared to the source material that is full of unneeded family drama(it eventually extends to the very top of the CIA), hot women stripping off their clothes to be in bed with the main character, perfectly cut pieces of puzzles in plot that are a bit too convenient, minor characters who make laughably bad life choices to hasten their own demise once they are not needed for the story. I found the game's distilled, straight to point version of the plot a fair deviation from the original. Game was a rather bad mediocre linear shooter and would've been forgotten with other plethora of similar games if not for its well executed cell shaded visuals with comic book elements like panels and speech bubbles adding to the feel. 

A project proposed by a studio known for overpromising and underdelivering, the entire game was remade in unity by industry newbies hired to cut development cost(the original code was lost). While they tried to preserve the comic look the cell shading is now a simple Borderlands-like filter that doesn't look good, and cutscenes got a similar downgrade sacrificing all the handdrawn art. This alone is a big blow because it takes out the only good part of the original. Animations are awful, while some look okay enough to be passable, majority of them are inexcusably terrible. When I first saw the reload animation for pistol i burst out laughing because of how bad it was. The game resets your loadout to a certain preset every time it loads a new level, even between the same location and has no contexts for it to happen. This mechanic greatly decreases the chance of weapons like M203 being used at the right moment, as their ammo is scarce. Collectibles like trophies and files are added but compared to the original supplementary readables that were gradually made available according to your progress they lack depth. There is also one type of enemy that's not present in this remake(SCUBA diver) but their model can be viewed in model viewer. One can only assume that they failed to figure out how to make enemies to move around in water in time. All this combined with the fundamental flaws of the original? Little wonder people weren't pleased with this game. But this remake isn't with only woes.

Considering the circumstances, they did not do all that bad and almost pulled a one to one remake. There are no cut levels, level layouts are still the same with minor differences like additional loots and details and new models are definitely an improvement over the originals. New features are also added, such as sprinting, all non-scoped weapons now having a usable iron sight and automatic use of gadgets like lockpicks and grappler. In general the gunplay and overall gameplay of this remake feels slightly less jankier and more fitting to modern standards.

I find it hard to recommend this remake to anyone, but it's not that unplayable as people say and 2 dollars are a perfectly okay price for this. It's a mixed bag for sure, but I've seen and played worse. Worth giving one playthrough.