Note : 👎

10.5 hours to finish says Steam. Deduct around one hour for taking breaks in Game.
100% Completion.
Tales of Kenzera: Zau is kind of a Metroidvania VERY Lite. Also a Game that for me was very hard to decide if I would recommend it or not. As you can see, I ultimately decided against recommending it.

I remember following one of the Devs (I think) on Twitter for a while and thought this looked interesting. So in a Sale I bought the Game and now finally played it.
I just remember that it was a personal story for the person that posted and I remember reading controversy about SBI (which I don't care about and it doesn't influence this Review).

Let me just start with the graphics and performance. It looks good. That's it. And the performance was overall very stable, a few areas here and there had very minor hitches, apart from that very good.
The environments also looked good. Nothing awe inspiring but it does the trick.

Music was also good. As was the Voice Acting for the most part.

But let's move on to the point why I didn't like the Game. Let me just tell you that objectively I think this Game is a 7/10 but for me personally it was more like a 4/10. I didn't have fun at all.

Regarding the Story, I couldn't connect with it. I don't want to be mean to the writer(s) and I respect the hustle but not everyone will resonate with "deeply personal stories". That's just how it is. I have to say at least the ending was kind of "satisfying" but overall I felt bored. It didn't grip me. A journey about "loss and lessons about how to let go" is just nothing that I care for. Sure, it made me reflect about my own death someday but still, the story didn't interest me personally.

On to Gameplay.
The Camera was bad. It was very slow, sometimes the character was faster than the camera. It was not gamebreaking but it was annoying as hell. 
Movement was okay, sometimes a bit too floaty. Knockback from enemies could be very annoying. (I will probably use "annoying" a lot here.)

Basically the Game goes like this: Run straight ahead (because for a Metroidvania there is VERY little backtracking involved and actually almost no exploring at all, it is extremely linear), here and there you talk, run more, enemy arena, fight, run more, next arena, fight, run more, talk more, get an ability, go all the way back and move on, at the end is a boss. That's the Game.

The level design is extremely boring (maybe not bad per se, but boring) and there is almost no incentive at all to explore. All abilities you will find anyways, optional stuff is very rare and very uninteresting.
The Game has some challenge are(n)as which are also pretty annoying when you play the Game on brutal.
Regarding difficulty: I played on Brutal up to the middle of Act 3 (out of 4), found it extremely easy but I really, really wanted the Game to end and just switched to story mode so I could rush through because enemies were just annoying and spongy.

And there is the next point: Enemies. There is only like 6 or 7 enemy types that you will fight and after you see them 2 times they already get boring to fight. Boring and if you play on brutal also annoying because of the knockbacks and sometimes also bad hitboxes.

You will probably die a few times ingame but the checkpoints are way too generous. Basically you respawn almost exactly where you died. At least this makes it a breeze to play through, which was positive for me, because I just wanted to get through it and actually I needed a very short palette cleanser Game after I played Shadow of the Erdtree.

So yeah, a Prince of Persia - The Lost Crown or any other good Metroidvania, this is not.
Already after the first 30 minutes I felt bored and didn't want to play anymore. But I pushed through and since it was very fast and easy to 100% I also did all the Achievements.

As I mentioned in the beginning, objectively it is not a bad Game but I just didn't enjoy it at all. This is why I was between the fence if I should thumbs up or down and then just asked myself: Did I have fun? And unfortunately the answer is no.

I am sure there are many people who will still enjoy the Game. Maybe also as a palette cleanser because it is quite short. For me, sorry, I have to pass...