Note : 👎

I didn't realise this was EA *facepalms*. 
And I actually had high hopes for it. *facepalms again*
Like, "FINALLY a game with a black protagonist, and a story based on true African culture, that's novel and not forced gratuitous ethnic tokenization!" But nope. EA had to fuck this up too. They had a fantastic idea, the right concept, right premise... and fucked up the delivery and implementation. BAD. *facepalms once more*

Sure, It is pretty African looking and all, I guess... cute story and all, African sounding names (no idea if accurate or even real)... ok character development... so yeah, a step in the right direction... but it's just Ori in the Blind Forest with AIDS that he got humping the wrong hooker in Vegas and tries to hide it from his boyfriend by using pretty graphics! All the same things, emotional story, those dumb arse pointless escape sequences that everybody hates (and they know it, cause they even put a dumb arse bird looking thing that you can interact with in the beginning offering to skip it with no loss to achievements or story or anything). 

But in reality it's just YET ANOTHER STUNLOCK SIMULATOR. The enemies just stay there dancing like idiots (honestly, have these animators ever watched ANY fight before to come up with a fighting stance that looks like a Zumba class for middle aged stay-at-home mums?), and if you get hit once, they all immediately sync up and juggle you all over the shop until you're dead, and no inputs work to stop it! And go back to dancing Zumba! Then you try to bunch them up and throw one against the other, or against the wall or pits, spikes or something (cause of course they had to steal that from God of War) to avoid it, but NO, they have these stupid shields with different colours, so it's gotta be the right mask, and while you're taking care of one colour the other colour has hyperarmour and proceeds to doing you up the arse DRY (ie: starting the stunlock sequence). And they're all running towards or shooting at you all the time, so there's no kiting, choosing/isolating - no strategy - just survival! And/Or they can cross the screen immediately with an attack to start the stunlock sequence! And yo think that your "varied arsenal of combos" will help eventually, but nope, the farther you get in the game the more you realise that you're just better off using the strongest attacks and getting away and hoping that damage over time and environmental damage cleans up the screen for you, instead of you actually fighting. I literally finished the game in the hardest difficulty using 2 attacks (that blue headbutt thing, and the dive bomb). Anything else is either situational or just an opening for someone to tank your attack and initiate the stunlock sequence. 

And then they know that their game is SHORT and SIMPLE and EASY otherwise, so they put all these "challenges" that are not hard - they're just annoying. When it's platforming, it's like a Tuesday morning playing Ori on easy mode with a hangover and when it's fighting it's "try several times until you manage to survive the stunlock by mashing the same strong attack button". Seriously, that's just to meet the playtime KPIs, come on...

And it identifies as a metroidvania too, but we all understand within 15mins that IT IS LINEAR. Everything you need is right in front of you. Sure, you can try to go the other way, but there will be a locked something RIGHT THERE in the beginning forcing you to go where they want you to go. And you dumb arse companion even backseats for you like "err, dude it's the other way, I told you to go the other way". So yeah, say what you want but this is LINEAR with extra steps (ie: you having to go ALL THE WAY to the right, then ALL THE WAY to the left, then ALL THE WAY to the top and that's that). Just making you run around to feel like you're doing something and making progress. This could very well have been like Mario Bros 1, just go to the right and reach the flag and save the player some fucking time, cause even the enemies are gone on your way back, so you can't even farm them for some early levels. You just dash your way around hoping you won't have to go back (but you will, cause then you'll have to go scavenger hunting for lore).

->SHAME<- Honestly guys. DO BETTER. Enough of "quick buck" lazy titles. Or at least don't waste a great idea like that. Sell it to someone who actually knows how to produce real games and is willing to invest on it. If you're not gonna help, at least stay out of the way.