Note : 👍

Before I start, I'd like to thank the Rocket Panda Games and the PB community for keeping the PB series alive, and I can't wait to introduce new players to this game!

This review will remain spoiler free.

Phantom Breaker Battle Grounds Ultimate is the second rerelease of PB:BG, the other being Battle Grounds Overdrive.
PB:BGU now uses Unreal Engine 5, and this game was completely redone from the ground up.

In terms of gameplay, there are a ton of big changes and tweaks to make the game much more enjoyable than the previous titles. I really like the new changes since it makes for a brand new and fun experience each time. This game is what I'd like to call a beat-em-up with fighting game elements since it shares a lot from the original title Phantom Breaker. Also, if you've ever played Mad Stalker, Asuka 120%, or Panzer Bandit, you can see where most of the games mechanics come from, since both Masatoshi Imaizumi, and Masaki Ukyo worked on PB:BG.

This game includes a new remix soundtrack and you can also switch to the PSG or FM verison. In my opinon, I prefer the FM soundtrack since it really showcases Takashi Abo's best work in music. I have to say, this soundtrack is just amazing.

Story mode is untouched but it now has an English dub for those who prefer it, of course you can change to Japanese in the options menu. Stages have plenty of secrets to uncover, so the replay value is high as far as that goes.

The biggest thing has to be that you can play online co-op with up to 6 players, or BG mode with 8 players. Team battle is also a new feature which will make for a very fun and chaotic time. And this game also contains crossplay for those who would prefer to play on the Nintendo Switch version, or PS5. One small problem is that BG mode matches don't last very long if you're fully leveled, hopefully we can get an update that can maybe give characters more health.

I've been a fan of Phantom Breaker since 2011, and I would defintely recommend this game for brand new players. Hopefully we will recieve plenty of updates along the way, or possibly some DLC's.