Note : 👍

The Last Case of Benedict Fox is a bit of a mixed bag for me.

On the whole, I enjoyed the game. The story is interesting, the limbo looks strange/weird enough, nailing an interesting visual aspect, the puzzles are tricky and running around exploring, for the first time at least, is tons of fun.
On the other hand, I really didn't like the combat nor the control scheme on pc, so much so I was really glad the game offered some special options to fine tune my experience and I took them up on the offer making the combat a formality while keeping the puzzles and exploration as top priority.

But I said the game is a bit of a mixed bag, and that is because some parts of the game felt frustrating for no good reason. The game has a couple chasing sequences and I disliked both, the second one more than the first because I was getting confused about what direction I was supposed to fleed at certain points, causing me to die and having to restart all the way down.
The exploration suffers a bit because unless you're marking all things, you're gonna have a hard time tracking down things you might have missed on second pass.
The tatooing experience, past the first time, is annoying as you have to watch the full animation of Benedict screaming every time.
The control scheme felt annoying.

Before finishing the game, my opinion about the game was that it was an OK experience, a 7/8 out of 10 joint. But then I finished the game and I didn't really like the ending. The payoff didn't feel worth the journey, altho I'll admit that at least the post credits little animation has me hopeful for a sequel one day.
I'll also lament that after finishing the game, there isn't a newgame+ mode, if you hit continue you just repop at the last section of the game, so any achievement you missed, like upgrading all the shop items, is gone unless you start all over again. The game will warn you that you should complete any loose ends before advancing at a specific point, and that is quite helpful, but having a newgame+ would still have been nice.