Note : 👍

Having played Titan Quest Anniversary Edition for 50+ hours here are some things i want to point out from my experience. (I have almost finished the game once)
To begin with TQ is kind of an old ARPG (release date:2006) although the anniversary edition came up to 2016 combining both TQ and TQ Immortal Throne (expansion pack) and updating some things that the older version didn't do so well such as QoL, enemy and pet AI, bringing new heroes and bosses, fixing some bugs and generally improving the game in order for it to be more playable and enjoyable nowadays despite it's age. 
TQ is a safe to go option for someone who is new to ARPGs providing an easy playstyle without making things complex (many crafts, many classes etc). The gameplay is quite simple followed by a story based on Greek, Egyptian and Chinish mythology, and the player has to go through some main and side quests in order to finish the game. The progession system in general is fine although some times especially in early levels it gave me the feeling of being underlevel (maybe it is because im not used in this type of games). As the game continued my experience became better and this wasn't a problem anymore. The bosses feel a bit unchallenging i would say giving you the feel that they dont differ from a standard mob with just a special ability. Although there are many bosses and many areas to explore that you face each time something different and more challenging (even if the challenge isnt as much as i wanted to be). Another thing that i didnt like is the fact that i tried to play with my friend co-op and we didnt manage to play (our internet speed is more than ok to support multiplayer). In general terms im not over excited with the game so far , but i have to confess its simplicity is the thing that keeps me playing as i find complex things tiring. In my opinion finding this game at sales is worth buying but first check some other games of this genre so you find what suits to each of you.