Note : 👍

I will mark this review as a positive one although in fact I would rather say it's somewhere in between, so both a yes and a no.
I think it's better to leave my personal peeves and criticism for later, so let's start with the 'yes' part. (the hours shown are not true, as I have only recently bought this game on Steam, the more correct number being somewhere around 4000 hours, maybe even more.)
1. Despite its obvious age, the game has aged pretty well and it may even compete with more recent games, at least in terms of the audio effects, the atmosphere and the appealing visuals, again despite its old kinda style. The soundtracks are especially commendable.
2. There is no point two here, unfortunately...

Well, here goes the 'no' part. 
1. The game is quite clunky and many, many things could be expanded upon, improved or somehow made better. 
1.1. It would be really nice to have all MI (monster infrequent) items actually show the prefixes and suffixes that are rolled for them, that is, to have these affixes shown as part of the items' names. The game is very grind-heavy and you will often find yourself grinding for 'the right item', which means you will have certain affixes in mind and aim for them, but how do you know if the right affixes were rolled? You could of course look those affixes up and compare the stats they provide with what your item provides, but that...takes...time. And that precious time could very easily be saved by just having those affixes listed directly in the name field, the same way it is done in Grim Dawn. 
1.2 The grind part. The grind/farming is quite impossible without those mods that make the number of the spawned mobs higher, as the vanilla number of mobs is just not enough. Since the game, again, is very grind-heavy, farming should be facilitated, probably by there being a 'mob coefficient' option in the vanilla settings, letting you have, let's say, 1x as your default value, and making you able to adjust that coefficient to some 10x, for example. That is, of course, not available now so I have to use mods, not all of which work as I wish they did. I just think that such a feature would not be that hard to implement and would save a lot of trouble for 'grind-enjoyers', such as myself. But that is just my opinion, of course. 
Well, even if we leave the subject of farming alone, the vanilla number of mods is still pretty low even for casual gaming - there are just too few of the enemies, and the leveling is extremely slow, resulting in my next point here.
2. The leveling part/the game's pace. TQ is a very slow-paced game when it comes to leveling and actually getting to those levels that allow your character build to 'open up' and reach that point where it best shines. So, it will be very long before you can see the best performance of your build. Even though now you can create a legendary character, the way it's done is very, very clunky and not very helpful. I would rather appreciate a more fast-paced leveling overall than just being able to test a blank character's performance at the legendary difficulty. It kinda kills that feeling of anticipation. But maybe it's just me. However, even if I can now see if my build performs well or not, actually getting to those levels is still extremely boring, as the slow pace of your character development sucks all the fun out of the process. 
3. This point is very serious and I think is the most important. Build viability. I understand and accept the fact that not all builds that we make on paper should work the way we imagine, but in TQ many builds are just outright dead because of the lack of support for them, and I don't mean items alone, but rather that enemies are immune to a certain damage type. It just feels wrong and really outdated. Most working builds that deliver the best performance are auto-attack builds based around warfare/hunting/defense combined with some other mastery for the stats and supportive skills, which is just meh. Skills that are cast only scale with your character's intelligence, and the weapon you are quipped with does absolutely nothing, apart from providing the stats. Caster builds in this game feel extremely weak when compared to their auto-attack counterparts, as they are either under-balanced, sub-optimal or outright dead, which makes a large chunk of possible playthroughs a waste of time. It goes without saying that the pet builds in this game are also extremely weak and not worth the trouble. 
4. The pets' AI/pathfinding. The way it works is just outrageous. I often have to manually position and re-position my pet in order to trigger or correct its expected behavior, because my Nymph really thinks it's a cool idea to try to shoot an enemy through an obstacle that just swallows the arrows. The behavior (aggressive, normal, defensive) settings sometimes help, sometimes not. The only way around it is to manually control the pet by first positioning it and then using the 'pet attack' innate ability. Sdubid. xD
5. Useless or nigh-useless skills. Yes, Ensnare, I am looking at you right now. Also Herbal Remedy...also Enslave Spirit. Also Circle of Power, but it got reworked and is now a fine skill, a really good skill. The list, of course, goes on. Some of these skills could actually be turned into extremely interesting niche skills with unique mechanics, but for now they remain useless. But let's dissect this part a little further and, say, take Enslave Spirit as our example. The skills, being maxed out, has a cool-down of 81 seconds and rolls a random number between 69 and 92, which, on average, gives us a number very close to 81. If we add just a little recharge time reduction to our build somehow, or use the Enslave Spirit ability under the effect of the Circle of Power, then we will have our Enslave Spirit skill up by the time the affected/enslaved unit turns hostile again. And then we have to repeat the same procedure, and by the way, the unit may easily die if we do not keep it alive somehow, which basically means that the ability is garbage. What could potentially bring this skill to life would be a total rework of how it functions. Let's say the Enslave Spirit now marks an enemy (a non-hero one) as 'Chosen' or something like that, and adds it to the pool of summonable units after you kill the marked enemy. So let's say you use Enslave Spirit on that fat satyr that has that nice aura that boosts your movement and attack speed, kill it, and it gets added to your pool of summonable units, which basically allows it to summon it for a time, or maybe permanently, with the ability to constantly re-summon it if it dies or until you have marked and killed another unit using the Enslave Spirit ability. How many possibilities will open up is hard to predict, but very easy to imagine - a whole lot of them. It would be really nice to have such a possibility to adjust your pet party with something that it potentially lacks, whether it be an aura or some specific ability. 

Here I think my list ends. 
I will leave this as a positive review, as I have mentioned, mostly for the nostalgic feelings that this games evokes in me, but apart from that, only take this game when on sale and if you are fine with out-dated and sub-optimal mechanics and questionable game design choices.
If not, I strongly recommend looking at Grim Dawn and getting it, whether on sale or not. Grim Dawn is much more superior in every aspect, and extremely well-polished in all potential ways.