Note : 👍

One of the most fluid action games I've ever played. Just boot up the game (really fast load times), pick a game mode and you're ready to roll. Game is just shooting, sliding and jumping, to the objective except it manages to perfectly capture the 'high' you get whilst in a digital firefight. Everything works.

Got a couple game modes, campaign, rogue mode with abilities/mutations, a daily mode (go for highscores against others), and a progression type mode that unlocks new maps as you do better on the different maps. I'm not sure if there's any new ones, but I haven't played in quite some time and those are the ones I remember.

The firearms in this game are sublime. Got handguns, SMGs, carbines, rifles, grenade launchers, shotguns, and some other surprises. You can even dual wield the weapons as long as you have one of the arm abilities equipped (not sure if that's changed). A lot are based on real life models, but tweaked to avoid copyright, so if you like guns that aren't stupidly futuristic and sound decent, you'll enjoy Severed Steel's humble offerings. 

Soundtrack is really good. Nothing outlandish, but I noticed I keep a better pace with the games flow if I leave it on.

Only negative I can think of is the game is it may be a bit disorienting due to particle effects in heavy combat and flashing effects. Maybe motion sickness as well if you jump around the walls alot, but those aren't necessarily flaws with the game, just side effects that you can't really control. There's really no flaws in terms of gameplay that I can think of. I just play and game does everything I input. If I miss my shot, I missed. No excuses and I like that. If I die doing the rogue mode, I just learn from my mistakes and I always find myself encouraged by the game to do better regardless if I fail or if I win. I've noticed my aim is better in several other games as well after spending a decent around in this game.

Do I recommend Severed Steel? If you like fast-paced shooters, absolutely. The game goes on sale for fairly cheap, so if you enjoy (virtually) shooting things with no limiters aside from ammo, Severed Steel is a really well done game in that regard. I like to think of it as a virtual 'kill house' to chill out in. It's an extremely rewarding game. One of the better 'modern' First Person Shooter games alongside the ones that are probably in the 'More Like This' suggestions below this game. Birds of a feather stick together.

Fantastic work!