Note : 👍

Severed steel is an excellent movement shooter.

The main game consists of 42 levels, that each offers a different type of challenge and a set of objectives
Kill everyone, destroy these computers, activate some switches, those sorts of missions. 
sometimes you don't even need to kill all the enemies in the level, if you've unlocked the exit, you can just slide your way to it and you'll be in the next mission.
There's a decent variety of enemies through the game, the different enemies will have their own strentghs and weaknesses that you have to exploit in order to kill them easily.
granted some of them can be a bit hard to distinguish from the others, while other enemies have a clear look.
You have accecss to a slow mo meter, which is handy throughout the game, depending on the difficulty, the meter will decrease at different speeds. 
it is refilled again by killing enemies.

You're invulnerable to enemies bullets while sliding on the ground, diving in the air and running on walls.
So it's alot about keeping in motion, to keep yourself being invincible, argueably the 2 most used tricks are going to be the slide and the dive.
and they work quite well.
You can also chain the manuevers, for example, you can slide into a dive.
You also have a kick that can be used in these manuevers, as well as kicking down doors. 

The game has lots of guns, but no reloading, which gives you more reason to scavenge weapons from enemies, which are automatically picked up.

Besides the main campaign, you also have workshop missions, level editor, firefight and a rogue lite mode, a daily challenge consisting of a mission, with some parameters.
there's some rewards with coins for gun skins as well and the rogue lite mode will have unlockables.
Plus after beating the game once, you obtain newgame plus, if you wanted to play through it again with various different parameters.
Which gives you a TON of things to do in the game.

Levels visually looks basic, but fits the aesthetic of the game, and helps outline the enemies and weapons, as they would no doubt be harder to see, if the enviroment looked more 
realistic/natural.
The levels will provide a variety of challenges based on the layout of the map, some are more fun and better than others, but still worth playing through. 
The first couple of levels are tutorials, but will teach you nicely about all the mechanics of the game

While there aren't a lot of sounds in the game, the ones that it has, are great, especially the guns, they sound like they have weight to them and they sound punchy.
On top of that, whenever an enemy is killed, you will get a clear and audible sound, letting you know that they died. 
There is a weird thing with the other audio, where it can sound "muffled" at times, even though the action is happening right beside you.
The soundtrack fits the game, but is rather generic and i can't remember a single track of the top of my mind, it's not bad, just not memorable.  

Technically there is a story in the game, you're playing a female character that wakes up in a waste disposal area, missing an arm, and then you have to escape the facility.
That's it, it's not amazing, but gives a drive and reason for why the player character continues onwards.

I'd highly recommend the game for anyone that loves movement shooters, it's overall fun, but can be a bit frustrating at times, but it was never to the point of it feeling unfair.