Note : 👍

Breakneck speed movement FPS, Severed Steel is perfect game to simulate what it would be like to be the protagonist of a B film action star tearing through the level with gun-fu.

The core gameplay of Severed Steel has you blitzing through the level, jumping everywhere, wall running, and shooting your way through corridors and corridors of enemies. It is needless to say that the very best aspect of Severed Steel is the gameplay, and it does its gameplay VERY well. 

Starting with the core movement system, this game is extremely fast pace. You are given an insane amount of mobility in this game. You can slide on the floor, and you move a lot faster when sliding down stairs, you have the ability to double jump, you have the ability to wall run, you can leap towards any direction, and you can even kick enemies or anything on the map to boost yourself in the air. The best part is that while performing any of these action, you are still able to freely aim and take shots at anyone in your way. Everything is breakneck speed and can be extremely chaotic if you let it. However, at a single press of a button, you are able to slow down and essentially have bullet time while performing any of these actions. So while time slows down, it give you just enough control to land a couple of clean shots on unsuspecting enemies, and enough time to coordinate and plan out your next move once you hit the ground. At first, the movement in this game did feel a bit floaty to me while I got used to the physics and controls of the game. However, I quickly picked it all up and everything felt an absolute blast to perform. By the end of my playthrough, I was a master at diving through glass windows, sliding through multiple chairs and desks, and wall running while bouncing off the corpse of every enemy I shot.

The gunplay also feels very nice in this game. There is a decent variety of weapons you will encounter on the floor and weapons that the enemies carry. They are all free game, pick up any weapon you feel like picking up and go ham with it. Every weapon was pretty satisfying to use and felt extremely good when you land a proper headshot on anyone. Now every gun in this game have very limited ammo, so reloading is not a thing in this game. Instead, you just pick up the next weapon available to you. This may sound tedious, but the way Severed Steel did it makes it feel absolutely seamless. Not only can you pick up weapons off the ground, but you can also pick up guns that dead enemies drop or you can simply approach them and steal the gun right off them. Whenever your current weapon run out of juice, you can throw the gun at any enemy to knock them over and they'll drop their gun. You can then just simply run to the weapon and your character will automatically pick up the nearest weapon whenever they are not holding one. This system is done wonderfully and because of it, the intense gameplay hardly slows down.

Another big thing I love about this game is that the environment is COMPLETELY DESTRUCTIBLE. Its just so fun to see the absolute carnage you left in your wake with windows broken and bullet holes and fire everywhere. In fact, you can easily take advantage of the environment to get creative with your kills. A little bit into the campaign, you unlock this arm cannon that is similar to something that Samus from Metroid would have. You can simply charge it up and it would create a giant hole at any wall you shoot it with, basically opening up an entire layer of tactics and openings for you to take advantage of. Now instead of having to just rely on the doors or windows like any normal person would, you can blast your way through ceilings or walls like you're the kool aid man. This game is an absolute power trip and I loved every second of it.

Now the story, at least in my opinion, is practically nonexistent. The main campaign is pretty short, clocking in at around 3 hours. It serve as a way to introduce you to all the mechanic of the game and what not but aside from that it isn't really worth mentioning about. However, if you bought this game just to play the campaign and to play for the story, then you should honestly get another game. The main meat of this game is its gameplay loop and thankfully the game offer a lot of game modes for you to play, including a whole level editor and what I believe to be a roguelite mode although I have not touched any of the other modes as of this review.

At the price tag of $25USD, I highly recommend this game for movement shooter enjoyers ONLY if you plan to actually play the game beyond its short campaign. Its highly addictive and satisfying gameplay and I can see myself coming back to this game anytime I need a movement shooter itch to be taken care of. If you only plan on touching the campaign and maybe trying out the other modes briefly, I recommend you wait for it to go on sale first. Otherwise, if you plan on fully taking advantage of all this game has to offer, then it is well worth the $25 price tag.