Note : 👍

After reading some reviews, I was wary.  I could understand some of the points others were making and I went into the game worried about gameplay, graphics, and story; but I pleasently surprised.

There were a few bugs here and there, but it looks like the developer is taking care of them as they find them.  This would explain not encountering some of the bugs others had previously mentioned.  As time goes on, I am sure there will be little to none to speak of.

The graphics, although not up to the quality of some of the larger titles, has character and style.  It was actually an enjoyable break from the drab color-palatte of larger games.  And since this game is tagged as both indie and casual, I am to take into assumption that it isn't meant to rival a heavy-budgetted game and just live up to what it wants to be; fun.  Intent aside, the rooms are fun and visually enjoyable, the characaters are amusing to watch, and the resolution seemed fine for whatever screen I played on.

The gameplay was simple, a point and click combination puzzle game that didn't have me frustrated by level 2 by some overly-complicated design.  Even further in, the difficulty was raised, but feasable.  The complexity came into the 'secret scares' which would be the achievements for this game.

The story felt a bit loose, but the quick cutscenes between the worlds as well as blurbs from stuffed animals/gargoyles/tutorial-like house narration helped keep you tethered to the story and who was involved.  I didn't feel like it was a visual narration of one of Neil's books, which I can only assume others felt dissapointed by.  All in all, the focus was more on the fun gameplay than bogging the player down with too much story.

As a over-all whole, I enjoyed the game.  I even spent time trying to get all the secret scares, some of which took me a while to get, and some yet elude me.

TL;DR : It's a fun casual puzzle game with some character with a bonus of Neil Gaiman's narration.