Note : 👎

[b]I'll try and keep this as spoiler-free as I can. Some of it might not make sense as I am very tired at the time of writing.[/b]

Well, this is disappointing.

As an idea, it sounds pretty cool. You get to be a ghost in a manor, manipulating objects to scare people. And it's written by Neil Gaiman! It has to be at least [i]okay[/i], right? Unfortunately, no. I've played the game for, admittedly, not a very long time. But the short time I did have with it, before closing it from boredom, was not really enjoyable at all.

Let's start with the basics. Wayward Manor's intro features Neil Gaiman giving me a somewhat lackluster reading of the talking Manor's thoughts and feelings about life. Gaiman doesn't sound like he's trying to play the part of the Manor here; if anything it's what I imagine a tired father reading aloud to his children, who aren't really paying attention, sounds like. The words themselves are perfectly fine. The delivery isn't.

Onto the gameplay. One word that comes to mind is bland. Another is repetetive. As a ghost you can manipulate objects in each stage to get a scare out of the characters in said stage. You start off being able to manipulate only precariously placed bottles of poison (I'm talking balanced on rafters and swinging from ropes). I understand that scaring people with these makes you more powerful in the room, able to play with more items. What I don't really get is why only some bottles are available to you at the start; it seems arbitrary and just "because we said so." to me. As the stages progress you get access to more of the objects, which sounds great. I think the problem is that you can still only interact with one thing at once, leaving combo potential almost out of the window. There are a few things set up in the stage that combo together but apart from those select few things, you're just left clicking on objects and hoping that the characters in the room will react in the way you want them to. It would be brilliant if you could move items around, using your own creativity to set up a big scare. But, no. All you can do is click things until you find two objects that interact with each other.

An example of above is a stage early on in the game. One character is walking around a room, cleaning it. Pretty much the only thing that you can do is make a rat run around. So it just becomes this tedium of making the character move to a different spot in the level, making the rat run out in front of them, rinse and repeat.

Now, I'm not really one to harp on about graphics in a game. But I will say this; Wayward Manor is not beautiful by any means. The character models are weird and sometimes glitch out or just walk through each other like they are the real ghosts here. A boy was meant to be hiding from a maid, but several times the boy ran out, stood [i]inside[/i] the maid, and ran away. In the settings menu the only graphical option there is is to change the resolution. Not a huge problem but some antialiasing couldn't have gone amiss. 

I like Neil Gaiman. I like puzzle games. What I do not like is slow, boring, repetetive and simple puzzles with, honestly, some very un-Gaiman-quality writing. I was looking forward to this game, and I am very disappointed.