Note : 👍

The reviews lied to me. This is a solid bite-sized entry in the series. Based on its reception, you'd think this game was a complete disaster, and yet it plays like Human Revolution, just with less verticality (no jump button) and no physics. So you can't throw environmental objects to create a distraction, and you can't move unconscious/dead bodies; they just vaporize after a few seconds instead. This makes for a simpler game, but simple doesn't automatically mean boring or bad. The game just has more of an arcade feel to it, without losing the aspects that make it immersive.

Since there's no easy way to distract guards, you're encouraged to grab the invisibility augmentation early on if you want to remain undetected while trespassing. The game actually forces you to try it out as your first augmentation during the prologue/tutorial, so they knew it was important. But this was always the strongest way to play Human Revolution in stealth, so... if you were already using that tactic in HR, the gameplay will feel virtually identical. I mean, if this was fine in HR, why wouldn't it be fine here? More of a good thing is not a bad thing.

So, the gameplay is more limited, but that doesn't make it bad. What about the graphics? Well, it feels like playing a PSP game in high resolution. I played the game in 4K and it looked very nice. The graphics are low-poly, but they are charming. Yes, charming. I mean come on. The original Deus Ex came out in 2000, and any true Deus Ex enthusiast will tell you that those crusty graphics are iconic as hell. In fact, simpler graphics make a game like this easier to read, so you don't have to constantly activate smart vision just to process what you can interact with at a glance. And this is not me throwing shade at Mankind Divided, I'm just saying both styles have pros and cons, and I would have loved seeing more of both. Not to mention, a game with these graphics would take far less money and time to make. If we got a sequel to Mankind Divided with these graphics I would happily take it over no sequel at all.

The game's biggest downfall is that the story is unfinished, but is that really enough to say that the entire game is bad? I don't think so. After all, Mankind Divided had the same problem. It's sad that the developers were not given the opportunity to continue these stories, because the world of Deus Ex is very engaging, immersive and dense in atmosphere. For me, everything comes together nicely because of the formula itself. So far, none of the Deus Ex games have strayed from that formula since the very first one, so even the "worst" ones have managed to be good to me.

Finishing a game in one sitting is a very satisfying feeling, so in that sense, I thought the pacing here was great. It is a short game, but that's fine as long as it's priced accordingly, which it is. You can get all Deus Ex games for peanuts these days. So if you enjoy the world of Deus Ex and just want to spend an extra 5 hours in it for a dollar or two, this is an easy recommendation. Think of it as the MGS: Peace Walker of Deus Ex, and you should have a pretty good time.

Hopefully Deus Ex will return someday.