Note : 👍

This game isn't good, but it sort of works, and it is decent fun. There are two major things to get out of the way first. One is that this is a port of a mobile game from 2013 and it really shows. The store page screenshots look okay but I managed to get a few during my time playing that looked so bad I just had to laugh. 2002 called, they want their graphics back. 

The second thing to mention is that was the first episode of a planned multi episode game that was cancelled because it sucks and not many people cared in the first place. So don't get invested in the story which, while it could've been better, wasn't honestly that bad. If the game had been completed as planned I'd have played through it all even though what we have here is buggy and subpar, sometimes to the point of being so bad its good. 

So with that out of the way, what kind of game is this? How does it compare to the other games in the Deus Ex franchise? Well I've only played this, Human Revolution and Mankind Divided, so compared to those this is the inbred cousin from the side of the family your parents urge you to stay away from. The gameplay of Human Revolution has been watered down and simplified, and it seems like this was made on a micro budget with as many reused assets as possible. It might've been okay at the time, keeping in mind it was a mobile game and phones these days are much more suited to gaming, but it just isn't that good of an experience on PC over a decade since it came out. 

So why recommend it? If you got this in a bundle, then keeping in mind typical sale prices you would pay less than a dollar to be mildly entertained and amused for anywhere from three to about ten hours, which is roughly what it took me to get a pretty easy platinum. My time is inflated a little since I left it running while I did something else at one point. I would never suggest anyone intentionally buy this game at full price, or maybe even at all, but if you find yourself owning a copy then why not give it a try.