Note : 👍

Many years ago there was a game called Theme Hospital. You were in charge of a hospital where you would treat patients with all kinds of wacky diseases, with the overlaying intention of turning a profit. It was published by SEGA as one of their first PC games and it was an absolute megahit. Two Point Hospital is a spiritual successor of that legendary game.
Two Point Hospital preserves the idea and gameplay style of its predecessor to the fullest. You'll be in charge of every aspect of the hospital, from hiring staff and running finances to decorating room interiors. The game is divided into lots of different scenarios (or missions, if you'd like to call them), with each being focused on some specific aspect of the game. For instance, one scenario lands you a job in the University hospital, where all the available staff are students without any experience so you'll have to train them from scratch. Once you complete a scenario, you'll also discover a challenge mode for that scenario, where patients are coming in waves similar to tower defense games. As you've probably already seen, Two Point Hospital comes with loads of DLCs that unlock new scenarios, but the game truly offers a lot even in its base form. Numerous missions with both normal and challenge modes, lots of different rooms to build and diseases to treat and an incredible number of ornaments to polish up your hospital are all sure to provide you with plenty hours of fun.
Two Point Hospital also delivers in terms of presentation. The art style and characters seem even more goofy than in the original Theme Hospital. Although not very detailed, the graphics are nice and colorful and the background music is totally relaxing.  However, the game is running on Unity engine, so once your hospital gets really big and crowded you can expect FPS hiccups even on high-end hardware.
Playing Two Point Hospital can devour your day in a flash, since it quickly lulls you into its casual and addicting gameplay style. The game is easy to learn and targets audiences of all ages. But the downside to that addicting gameplay in most casual strategy games is the lack of depth. Two Point Hospital is no exception to that rule and can soon become boring to experienced and more-demanding players. Personally, I was very disappointed with the limited options for managing staff behavior and hospital policies. The AI of NPCs could also be (a lot) better.

Two Point Hospital is a relaxing game that I can comfortably recommend to anyone, especially the younger players.

Score (out of 10):
[h1][b]8[/b][/h1]