Note : 👍

Absolutely amazing game! I wasn't expecting anything more than another gimmicky puzzle platformer of sorts, like "our game is so unique because you can change the perspective in a 2.5D kind of way," like "yeah okay, so original..." but hooooBOY was I wrong about that lol. The music and atmosphere were nice all throughout, and the general presentation was also great, especially from how well they implemented the whole perspective altering gimmick, but most of all, the natural progression and discovery of FEZ just straight up blew my mind...

It is on par with the most immersive and complex puzzle/exploration-oriented games I've ever played (Tunic, Animal Well, Tomba, Elephantasy Flipside, Eldritchvania, Vision Soft Reset, the La-Mulana series, etc.) and I could have stopped after reaching the basic ending, but I could see a lot of potential for solving more puzzles and discovering more secrets, so I broke out the old pencil and paper and started writing down anything I could make a connection to from the game like some kind of crazy sleep-deprived detective's evidence board of red yarn and newspaper clippings lol.

I never did end up figuring it all out, still periodically repeating some riddle from the game in my head randomly from time to time to see if another light bulb goes off, but I did get pretty far past the basic ending, and that's typically just how these kinds of games tend to go for me, too, when they offer enough meat on the bone for me to chew on for a while (not solving everything but losing track of the hours spent solving what I could and just really enjoying the journey of discovery rather than the final destination).

I am just amazed at how much of a work of art this game was altogether, though, and how much more it offered beyond my expectations. Also, being a very big fan of these kinds of games, of intellectually stimulating existential stuff, and of the music of a certain classical composer, the ending that I did get to was like some kind of out of body experience for me, leaving me unexpectedly awestruck, and actually sort of inexplicably brought tears to my eyes. 11/10.