Note : 👍

(After posting I realised how long this was. Feel free to skip to the end to see a brief list of thoughts, or continue reading to get the full course meal)

I love this game a lot. The traversal for each character is unique and playing multiplayer with a varied squad feels amazing, having everyone reach the objective in their respective ways. 
Gunplay feels great too. I'm god awful at aiming and I thought the flashy-movey-ness of the game would make shooting hell, but the autoaim and the melee into pewpew combo makes it a non-issue. I commonly play shooters on mouse and keyboard but this feels FAR better to play with a gamepad so please do.

The story is, I would call it "charming" if it wasn't an IP bigger than the biggest thing I've seen, which is perhaps a building of sorts. But yes, the story is nice, I like the writing (I'm fucked up) and I think each of the character dynamics are really funny when worked together. 
HOWEVER, once the base game story ends, you enter into the "episodic" content which are a series of seasons released post-launch as a live-service aspect. THIS is the "worst" part of the game by far, but that doesn't quite mean it's bad. Sorta.

There are four seasons with two episodes each. They have their own levelling systems that first progress with doing whatever mission you want (killing time ftw), and later, after the final mission of each episode, progress with the mastery levels, accounting for the top three masteries you've achieved in an episode. The game explains it better. Anyway, the first episode of each season unlocks a character once you beat it, and from what I remember the first episodes are usually the "longest" (25 levels required to get to the last mission instead of 10 in the second episodes), but you can also unlock the characters with premium currency which I'll talk about more in a little bit.
These have small amounts of story and even less of the charming dialogue I enjoyed in the base game but it's more gameplay which, as I said, I enjoyed. However, I usually did the bare minimum to progress into the next episode instead of trying to max out each one (200 levels!!!).

You can do this too! There's no expectation of you to go beyond the level required to face the boss of each episode. The only real reason to stay and grind episodes is to get weapons from infamy sets which will help you a lot with harder content. Infamy sets are collections of weapons which have unique set bonuses (three per episode usually) and villain synergies with notorious items (a step above legendary), and utilising them fully will grant you immense power!!! There are also corrupted (slightly different bonus but strong) notorious items and master (just better) quality gear.

Lots of loot for a looter shooter, which is great. What isn't great is that while the infamy sets are interesting, they're not really strong. The Bane infamy set, the one available from the end of the base game, wins out in most cases for being easiest to utilise, strongest outright, and just generally easier to grind (you can go after specific tiers once you reach the right mastery level, while the episodes give you all three tiers in every mastery level, meaning you're dealing with a lootpool that's three times as big). This is why I say you can totally just cruise through the episodes- the gear in them isn't going to be an amazing increase to your power minus a couple of notorious items so there's no point in grinding them unless you REALLY want to make a build based on your favourite villain. In which case, go forth.
But even if you DO get a good build, you're not going to be able to use it. Every episode ends on, at hardest, Sweating Bullets. You can replay all the missions at increasingly higher mastery levels but as soon as you go onto the next episode you're back to Sweating Bullets. There is an "Invasion Level" which affects the difficulty of the overworld but the only time spent there is when you're traversing to the next mission.

I got a bit lost in the sauce there, I do love my rambling. Anyway, premium currency! The game has a store and battle pases, all of the juicy stuff you come to expect from modern games. I never used the store (I played boomerang outside of levelling other characters and his best outfit is the default) but each of the battle passes, at the very least, give you enough currency (1000) to buy another battle pass. I got the deluxe edition super cheap and that gives you access to one battle pass, so once you max one out you can go onto the next and the next and the next completely free. Ah, and all four battle passes are in the game and can be swapped between at whim. This is good, for a battle pass.
Again, you can also buy the characters with premium currency. I don't know why you would unless you seriously want to play Deathstroke as early as possible (I think the earliest you can be a non-default TFX member is post-game? But I could be wrong, I didn't buy any of the characters), but the option is there.
The store is just cosmetic shit. It sucks but it's there if you really want to buy cosmetics for a game that failed at launch. Whatever.

I talked about it a little bit earlier but the story for the episodes is a little bit lacking. Most have animated cutscenes before you fight the boss and just after, and every episode has a "slideshow"-like introduction. The bossfights are fairly repetitive but they're all better than the base game final boss which is battle of attrition whenever I try it. They were clearly running out of money towards the final major update. 
The last two episodes have a single animated cutscene between them and it's not even the ending. There's barely any dialogue and they feel the most barebones of all which just plain sucks. When getting to the bosses, the fights just start. The new character is introduced in a codex audio log. It's like they barely even tried. I liked the ending (I enjoy bad things) but my god did the quality of the last two episodes sour it.

Also all of the additional characters have Deadshot's "hover when aiming in the air" ability and I just hate that.

Rant over. To summarise: 
Base game rocks, episodes are repetitive but can be fun, though drop off towards the end.
Story is fun, characters are fun, but both have so little place in the last few episodes that you might miss them.
Loot stops being meaningful extremely quickly, literally immediately if you play Finite Crisis (the base game endgame state).
Difficulty is generally incredibly low and raising it is exclusive to each episode.
Premium store and battle passes :(
Play on controller unless you hate me personally.

Dead worth it on sale, currently it's £9 for deluxe, £6 for base. Force some friends to buy it and have a good time. Or hate it. But give it a chance. I understand this being the only real Justice League game sours it for a lot of people, but go in with an open mind and enjoy. Maybe pray for a fully-fledged JL game in the future. Thank you for reading if you got this far, I love you.