Note : 👎

I purchased this game for $5 with the intent of enjoying a "bad" game with a friend; the kind of game that is "so bad it's good" as I was led to believe by screenshots of the game holding 300 or less concurrent players. I had seen the memes of the incomprehensible UI, the numbers bloat, all of it. $5 to experience that, have a few laughs with a friend, and uninstall? It was too good a deal to pass up.

Suicide Squad: Kill the Justice League is a game that surprised, delighted, and disappointed me, in that order. Surprised because it was not as bad as I was led to believe. Delighted because moving across the rooftops of Metropolis slaying groups of enemies was fun. Disappointed because I had been lied to. The realization set in that I was not in fact playing a bad game, but one that was just... fine. I hesitate to call Suicide Squad a bad game, but I still chose to give it a negative review for this simple reason: Aside from the traversal of the open world, it does not do anything better than other games in the genre. Suicide Squad does not have the gunplay of Destiny, the loot of Diablo, the humor of Borderlands, and it runs like shit. It manages to stumble its way to relevance (for a lack of a better term) on the strength of its intellectual property and the name of the legendary studio that developed the Batman Arkham trilogy. The game only managed to keep me playing for as long as I did because I wanted to get all of the achievements.

Suicide Squad departs from the Arkham formula of enclosed arenas versus various villains and goons who hold different weapons and abilities which the player must adapt to by using everything in Batman's toolbelt. It exchanges this for an open environment where multiple players are able to move quickly and freely in all directions; a style of game that is not befit for the Arkham formula as the player immediately feels more powerful and balancing the game becomes more difficult. Rocksteady's chosen solution was to add modifiers to missions such as enemies only taking damage from critical hits or grenades. The problem is that the challenging aspect of the combat from the Arkham games is not restored but it is now just easy AND annoying. It is not fun to be unable to use my weapons and traversal attacks because of modifiers which are meant to artificially create difficulty. Fortunately, if you manage to get through the story, this problem is alleviated in what endgame content I've played and the limiting modifiers are not present. There is some fun to be had here with seeing the Justice League and Brainiac as villains in a video game, the different mission types, and traversing Metropolis as previously mentioned. I could even argue that there is value in being able to play as characters that are not typically given a spotlight. However, the limited bright spots that this game contains are bogged down by a gameplay loop and systems that fail to live up to those that have come before it. It is for these reasons that I feel like my time with this game was time wasted.

It is unfortunate because Rocksteady are a team of talented devs who made a trilogy of Batman games that can stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the best Batman movies. I know that they are capable of making a return to form and will continue to deliver incredible games. I hope that this misfire was the result of out-of-touch suits who will now think twice before they force live service onto games that have no need for it. Let the devs cook.