Note : 👎

Don't be like me and think Survive has anything to do with Metal Gear. 

After replaying MGS4 and being impressed by how awesome it is, I decided to give Survive a try to satisfy my hunger for more Metal Gear. 

On paper, it doesn't sound so bad - a rehash of elements from MGS5 (which is my personal favorite game ever), with a survival twist. 

However, the game doesn't offer much. Most of my time with Survive so far has been spent traversing painfully empty areas and collecting an absolute bazillion items for the sake of collecting even more items. 

You can rely on stealth to some extent, but soon the more significant fights will involve direct combat, which, with the initial emphasis on melee weapons, is unsatisfying, if not boring. 

The plot and characters are not very compelling (except for Reevs' voice, which sounds a lot like Miller's, but you'll mostly hear unpleasant-sounding robot AI talking to you) - it all comes down to directing you to a point on the map where you have to activate something or bring something back to camp. Nothing special has happened in the game so far in the 7 hours. 

Survives relying on the MGS5 framework evokes ambiguous emotions - on the one hand, you can feel "at home" seeing the main character moving around using Venom Snake's animations, the graphical and sound effects are mostly copied from MGS5. On the other hand, the realization quickly dawns that this is not Metal Gear at all. 

Perhaps a better solution would have been to create this game under a different name, only using MGS5 as a base - which Capcom successfully did with IPs like Lost Planet/Monster Hunter/Dragons Dogma, where each IP received a little more love instead of forcibly relying on a well-known brand. 

In this way, Survive is worse than any "big" game in a similar genre. Want Metal Gear? Try Breakpoint. Hordes of zombies? Buy Days Gone. Survival and item management? Even a free Fallout 4 mod makes a better impression. 

I approached the game with good intentions, but Survive doesn't hold up on any level and is very average at best.